# Patterns
A VST MIDI sequencer with probabilities as inputs developed at [University of Ljubljana](https://www.fri.uni-lj.si). Intended to spice up your drum loops with some random (but controlled!) fills or just straight up generate drum patterns (hence the name).

## Download
You can download a [Windows 64bit VST](./bin/Patterns.dll). Mac version is expected when I get access to a Mac.

## Interface
The interface consists of 8 drum tracks -- Kick, Snare, Hi-Hat, Tom and their respective inverses Mot, Tah-Ih, Erans and Kcik (wow so funny). This is based on my personal preference as I tend to set my drum machines with two kicks and two snares, but since you can choose the MIDI note for each track the names are just arbitrary. From top to bottom on each track you can find the name, activity indicator, mute button, probability, quantization and velocity sliders, the off beat button and the MIDI note.

There is also a global MIDI through button to let any incoming MIDI pass unchanged.

## Instructions
### General
- The activity indicator turns pink everytime the track has active MIDI output.
- The mute button mutes the track, i.e. no notes are ever generated.
- The probability slider controls how likely a note is to be triggered: 0 is never, 1 is always.
- The quantization slider controls how often a note can be triggred per bar, meaning 1 is on the first beat, 4 on every beat, 8 on every 1/8 etc. Larger is more often.
- The velocity slider controls the MIDI velocity of all notes generated by the track. Larger is louder.
- The off beat button offsets all notes generated by the track by half the selected quantization.
- You can specify the MIDI note for the track in the text box at the bottom. The default notes are based on standard MIDI drums, but the values can be any number between 0 and 127. If you enter an incorrect value, last correct value will be kept.
- The MIDI through button lets all incoming MIDI pass through (or not) so you can use fixed MIDI sequences together with Patterns.

### Ableton
1. Load up Patterns into a MIDI track.
2. Load a Drum Rack into another MIDI track (you can also use one of the standard drumkits or just any MIDI instrument).
3. Set the MIDI input on your instrument track to Patterns and monitoring to `In`.

*Tested in Ableton Live 9*

### Bitwig
1. Load up Patterns into a MIDI track.
2. Load up a Drum Machine (or other MIDI instrument) on the same track.

*Tested in Bitwig 2.2.3*

### Fruity Loops
*Patterns can be loaded into FL Studio, but I don't know ho to route MIDI properly, sorry.*

*Tested with FL Studio 12.*

